
Introduction
ans no answer needed

The OSI Model: An Overview
1. Which layer would choose to send data over TCP or UDP?
 Ans: 4
2. Which layer checks received packets to make sure that they haven’t been corrupted?
 Ans: 2
3. In which layer would data be formatted in preparation for transmission?
 Ans: 2
4. Which layer transmits and receives data?
 Ans: 1
5. Which layer encrypts, compresses, or otherwise transforms the initial data to give it a standardised format?
 Ans: 6
6. Which layer tracks communications between the host and receiving computers?
 Ans: 5
7. Which layer accepts communication requests from applications?
 Ans: 7
8. Which layer handles logical addressing?
 Ans: 3
9. When sending data over TCP, what would you call the “bite-sized” pieces of data?
 Ans: Segments
10. [Research] Which layer would the FTP protocol communicate with?
Ans: 7
11. Which transport layer protocol would be best suited to transmit a live video?
Ans: UDP

Task 3 - Encapsulation
1. How would you refer to data at layer 2 of the encapsulation process (with the OSI model)?
Ans: Frames
2. How would you refer to data at layer 4 of the encapsulation process (with the OSI model), if the UDP protocol has been selected?
Ans: Datagrams
3. What process would a computer perform on a received message?
Ans: De-encapsulation
4. Which is the only layer of the OSI model to add a trailer during encapsulation?
Ans: Data Link
5. Does encapsulation provide an extra layer of security (Aye/Nay)?
Ans: Aye

Task 4 - The TCP/IP Model
1. Which model was introduced first, OSI or TCP/IP?
Ans: TCP/IP
2. Which layer of the TCP/IP model covers the functionality of the Transport layer of the OSI model (Full Name)?
Ans: Transport
3. Which layer of the TCP/IP model covers the functionality of the Session layer of the OSI model (Full Name)?
Ans: Application
4. The Network Interface layer of the TCP/IP model covers the functionality of two layers in the OSI model. These layers are Data Link, and?.. (Full Name)?
Ans: Physical
5. Which layer of the TCP/IP model handles the functionality of the OSI network layer?
Ans: Internet
6. What kind of protocol is TCP?
Ans: Connection-Based
7. What is SYN short for?
Ans: Synchronise
8. What is the second step of the three way handshake?
Ans: SYN/ACK
9. What is the short name for the “Acknowledgement” segment in the three-way handshake?
Ans: ACK

Task 5 Networking Tools Ping
1. What command would you use to ping the bbc.co.uk website?
 ans : ping bbc.co.uk
2. Ping muirlandoracle.co.uk
 What is the IPv4 address?
 ans : 217.160.0.152
3. What switch lets you change the interval of sent ping requests?
  ans : -i
4. What switch would allow you to restrict requests to IPv4?
  ans : -4
5. What switch would give you a more verbose output?
 ans : -v
 
Task 6. Traceroute
Use traceroute on tryhackme.com
1. Can you see the path your request has taken?
ans : no answered needed
2. What switch would you use to specify an interface when using Traceroute?
ans : -i
3. What switch would you use if you wanted to use TCP SYN requests when tracing the route?
ans : -T
4. [Lateral Thinking] Which layer of the TCP/IP model will traceroute run on by default (Windows)?
ans : Internet

Task 7. WHOIS

1. Perform a whois search on facebook.com
ans : no answered needed
2. What is the registrant postal code for facebook.com?
ans : 94025
3. When was the facebook.com domain first registered?
ans : 29/03/1997
4. Perform a whois search on microsoft.com
No answer needed.
5. Which city is the registrant based in?
ans : Redmond
7. [OSINT] What is the name of the golf course that is near the registrant address for microsoft.com?
If you search on Google ‘golf club near Redmond’ and click on the google maps link you’ll see that the Bellevue Golf Course is the nearest to Redmond.
ans : Bellevue Golf Course
8. What is the registered Tech Email for microsoft.com?
ans : msnhst@microsoft.com
